So far we have been talking about recurrent and our on that works.
We have been talking about wenching gradient problem and we have come to the conclusion that using LSD
or long short term memory architecture can solve the vanishing gradient problem.
So instead of the age.
Units so age the age D-plus so on age D-plus too we want to order some memory in our own network and
we want to manipulate these memory cells.
First of all we want to flush the memory.
So we would like to get rid of some information.
So that's why we have to create the forget gate.
Of course sometimes we want to order some new information to the memory.
So this is why we have to design the input gate.
And sometimes you want to read some information from the memory.
And this is why we have to create the out the gate.
So instead of just a single hidden layer by the way it is important to know that this didn't know contains
several name rowans.
So this is what we have been discussing in the first lecture of distracter that this is how we represent
recurrent in our own networks that every single node represents a given layer with several and there
were loans.
So this is just a node in the recurrent now our network but it contains stree now rowans as the hidden
layer.
OK so these nodes age the age D-plus want at age D-plus 2.
These are layers.
Basically the hidden layers with several now with bones.
But the main feature of long short term memory architecture is to use gates forget gate impled gate
out to the gate.
So we are going to deal with memory as well.
OK so there are the age parameters and we will have the and pairing meters which are the memory cells
basically.
OK.
So as far as the output is concerned this gate determines the age outboard based on the previous taps
stored in the memory.
So we are going to store lots of lots of information in the memory and the output gate is going to determine
that what data stored in the memory is important or not.
OK so what's the main concept behind long short term memory that if you take a look at a given image
during the training procedure there are going to be lots of lots of iterations for example in the first
iteration the algorithm comes to the conclusion that the most relevant feature of a cat is the shape
of the ears.
Then in the next iterations there are going to detect several other features.
And the algorithm midsouth forgets about the first feature as far as the shape of the years are concerned.
So that's why we would like to store the shape of the ears as a relevant feature in the memory in order
to make sure in further iterations that we remember these important features.
So that's why we have to store information in memory cells and the algorithm midsouth is going to remember
the most relevant features the most relevant information.
OK so the output gate is going to determine the output based on the previous data stored in memory.
OK so the equation is quite straightforward.
First of all it's important to use the sigmoid activation function.
So we have the age t minus one and the X the input.
Of course we will use some weight parameters double 0 0.
OK we have to use the sam as usual and then we have to use an activation function.
As usual the activation function is going to be the sigmoid activation function because we are after
a number within the range of 0 and 1.
So we can play the values in the memory with the half of this output Gade the value after applying the
sigmoid function here is zero.
What does it mean that we do not care about the information present in the memory zero times anything
in the memory is going to be zero.
It's not going to have any effect on the training procedure.
On the other hand if the value after applying the activation function is 1 It means that we are curious
about the information present in the memory cell.
OK so this is how we calculate HD it's going to be the sigmoid activation function of x d and h t minus
1 we given educates and of course we have to use the bias and we have to deal with information present
in memory south.
OK these are ration is an element wise multiplication.
And this is how we make sure that we store lots of lots of information in the memory such as the shape
of the ears such as the coloring the background or for example the color of eyes and so on.
And during the training procedure recurrent now our networks and our t s is going to come to the conclusion
that the color of the background is not that important the shape of the ears is very very important.
So the output gate is going to have the value zero as far as the background color is concerned because
this feature this information is not relevant when we are dealing with the shape of the ears then the
value of the output will be won because we would like to use this relevant feature present in the memory.
So this is how we select what's important and what's not.
And during the training procedure we update this double zero educates in order to make Digby's prediction.
OK so that's all about the output Gade the output gate is going to control the HD output of course.
Somehow we have too many plate memory cells.
What to keep in the memory and what to discard.
And basically this is the aim of forgat gate with the help of the forget gate we manipulate not the
output but the content of the memory.
We want to store in the memory.
So what are the relevant information and what's not even the output of the forget gate is 0 what does
it mean.
It means that we get rid of the information present in the actual memory south because it is not important
if the output of the forget gate is one we keep all the information present in the memory because it
is important in our classification for example.
And that's why it's crucial to use the sigmoid activation function to end up within the range 0 and
1.
If we use 10 age activation function it's going to be within the range of minus 1 and plus 1.
So it's not going to work.
We have to use sigmoid activation functions for Gates anyways.
As you can see the edge weights are different for the forget gate.
As for the output gate.
So during the training procedure the algorithm is going to find the optimal weights for the output gate
for the forgat gate.
And of course for the input gate.
So what about the input gate the input is going to be something like this.
We have H D minus 1 because it is a recurrence.
Now we're all in that work so we have to deal with that information in the previous stop.
We have to deal with the information in the actual step x t.
Of course there's going to be some way to Matrix.
We have to sum them up and we have to use the 10 H activation function.
In this case you can use sigmoid you can use the ralliers activation function.
Usually we use the tan age and with the half of the input Kate with sigmoid activation function again
in order to transform the value within the range 0 and 1 we can control what to keep from the input
because there are lots of lots of irrelevant information in the input.
I don't want to repeat myself over and over again but if we had an image for example there are lots
of lots of irrelevant information what's the color of the background or what's the size of the image
or where is the object located on the given image.
So there are lots of lots of important information present within the image and lots of lots of irrelevant
information.
OK so with the improved gait we kind of write new data to the memory and we read another a gateway into
the.
Basically we can control what data to keep and what to discard.
So just to summarize it again.
LS LSD is going to deal with memory cells.
So in the hidden layer we are going to have the activations but we are going to have the memory cell
values as well.
We have the age of values and we have the Capitol and the values representing the memory and with the
help of street Gates forget gate into the gate and out to the gate we can manually the output and we
can manipulate the memory cells whether to flush the memory whether to order a given item to the memory
or read from the memory.
OK so we the hack of Gates we are able to make sure that we keep the most relevant features and we are
able to deal with the data far away from each other.
So with the half of the memory make sure that we are able to detect long term dependencies.
So for example sentences in a given tax far away from each other are well trained to be current.
Now we're on a network.
Did at the as an architecture is able to come to the conclusion that OK this guy speaks fluent Hungarian
because he is from Hungary.
So we are able to deal with items quite far away from each other in the training procedure.
And this is exactly what we are after.
Ok the only problem with these long short term memory is that it is quite a complex model.
We have to deal with the output again.
We have to deal with the forgat gate.
We have to deal with the input again.
There are lots of lots of ways to the day to double you zero.
Double you want w to use W3.
So the training procedure is going to be extremely slow.
And this is why gated recurrent units came to be and this is what we are going to talk about in the
coming lecture.
Thanks for watching.